DHCP :

DHCP is the dynamic host configuration protocol which is used to dynamically get the IP address
in a system.So it will undergo a DORA process, Discover , Offer, Request and Acknowledgement.
So in the DORA process, the DHCP client  will send a request to the DHCP
server stating that I need an IP to communicate and the DHCP server will respond with the
offer message offering an IP to the client and the client have to accept the IP by sending
an request message and the server can acknowledge that by confirming the IP address and other
confirmation details to the client device.
So this is the DORA process of the client asking for the IP to the DHCP server and
then assigning an IP to it.


So we want, if we want to analyze the packets in Wireshark, the DHCP packets and the DORA
process, I have already connected to my home router FTTH.
So if I shut down my Ethernet and then if I enable , I
will get only the type 3 and type 4 of the DORA process that is the request and acknowledgement.
This happens why because I have already connected to the Wi-Fi which is FTTH.
So it will be stored.So when I try to connect it again, it will remember the network and it will undergo only
the request and the acknowledgement process.


So if I have to get all the DHCP DORA process entirely, I have to remove the connection
entirely and then I have to again connect, then I have to again shut down my connection
and then enable the Wi-Fi connection again.

So if I want to do this, I can do using the DHCP client message, but in modern ubuntu they are, we are using network manager and system CTL .
So for that we have to use system CTL command to remove the device connection.
So using the system CTL like device connection delete, we can entirely remove the Wi-Fi connection
from our device and then after removing that we have to like shut down our Wi-Fi connection
and then we have to add the Wi-Fi connection again.


We can, after that we can enable the  Wi-Fi .

So if we do this, we can see all the four process in the wireshark capturing DHCP DORA
packets entirely.

So if we click the DORA like discover packet, we can see the type as one.
So in the offer packets we can see the type two and request packet we can see the type
three and acknowledge packet we can see the type four.


So when I tried first for the first time, I got the error, I missed the first two process
I only get the request and acknowledgement.
So after studying, I get to know that we have to entirely remove the connection and
then we have to connect it again to do this and we have to do one main step like we have
to delete the lease file from the network manager since it stores all the previous Wi-Fi
details or configuration details.
So we have to remove that and we have to entirely remove the device connection and we have to
again reconnect to the Wi-Fi and then we have to do the process.
